he sinks out of sight. Only when the boys point out that Jones will drown does Donald try to help him out— and is pulled in too. The boys finally haul them out with block and tackle and leave them like grotesque lawn statues, still shouting invectives through the hardening putty.

Barks' violence was realistic because there was always a consequence to a given action. Unaided, Jones would have drowned. Villain McFiendy in **In Darkest Africa** (March of Comics No. 20) tampers with the ducks' gear. Suspecting sabotage, Donald throws a chunk of their hardtack to a crocodile that writhes into a screeching knot and dies. What would have happened to the ducks is clear, and the impact of the violence registers far more forcefully than the concatenations of explosives and boobytraps of a Roadrunner cartoon.

A Disney book was no place for bodies and blood, and Barks naturally censored his own work rather heavily in the Grim Reaper department. The only example of Barks bloodletting occurred in a Barney Bear and Benny Burro story from a 1944 **Our Gang** comic. The two heroes are tracking a lost lamb. Suddenly they reach a junction where wolf tracks cross hoof marks in a red splash and only the paw prints continue. "I don't think we will see any more of our lamb," complains Benny.

The long spy spoof **Dangerous Disguise** (FC No. 308) had the highest rate of fatalities, including a suicide through a closed window and a leap from a speeding train off a high trestle bridge. This story was also distinguished by its use of

human beings. Humans surfaced occasionally, (US No. 6, WDCS No. 158, FC No. 275 and **Adventure Down Under** in FC No. 159), but they had never dominated a story. "It came about through a moment of foolishness on my part," recalls Barks. "I felt that I wanted to draw some human faces. I stuck them in that story and got slapped around about it. They didn't like it, and they told me not to do that again."

Actually, the humans work rather well for the satire, since the idea of camouflage and secrecy are made all the more ludicrous by pairing Madame Triple X with a duck in a sailor suit. The idea obviously still had appeal a quarter of a century later when Marvel sired Howard (out of Donald) the Duck and teamed him with luscious sidekick Beverly Switzler. Carl is enthusiastic about Howard and is pleased to see that duck satire lives in the seventies. Barks has a simple formula for finding the actual satires among his own stories: if it looks like satire, it probably is. The Pulpheart Clabberhead story (WDCS No. 92), for example, is satire. ("Yes, that was a takeoff on Dr. Spock.") Others include body building (WDCS No. 69), superheroes (WDCS No. 107), would-be savants (WDCS No. 149), science fiction (WDCS No. 249), and health foods (WDCS No. 282).

Barks' longest running satiric gag was the Junior Woodchucks organization. There were a few references to earlier clubs—the "Gopher Club," the "Half-pint Rangers," and the "Bear Cub Rangers"—but Barks settled on the Woodchucks for Huey, Louie and Dewey's fraternal lodge. Each Woodchuck is issued a Handbook,