some people!"
Donald can be obsessive, but he has no fixed goal like Scrooge's wealth or Gladstone's luck. Donald often is a naked emotion looking for an object; only he can feel as passionately about the trivial. When a pack rat vandalizes his curio collection, Donald wails, "Life won't be worth living without my starfish!" Donald is not merely angry when the kids' pet chipmunk loses the key to his trailer; he is completely given over to rage: "I hate him with a cold unbridled fury!"

Barks probed all sides of the human personality, and the broad range and complexity of emotions in his stories are one reason that adults as well as children still read them. In the overmoral world of children's literature, Barks' plots were a welcome relief from the "be good" theme. Other monthly Disney characters included such dreary do-gooders as Lil' Wolf and born-again Bucky Bug who went so far as to preach in verse.

Like the reader, Donald Duck lived in an uncertain and threatening world. He might lose if he cheated, but he wouldn't win simply because he had been good. The disparate resolutions of the stories imply that it is better to be good than bad but that goodness itself doesn't bring popularity, wealth, or success. Don might start out arrogantly and STILL come out on top. "I was letting the story build up to a certain point in which the reader would be expecting the conventional end, and then I would fool the reader by dragging in something that was completely ridiculous, making it look plausible." Barks' explanation of

the shifting fortunes of fate is simple, but the only artist who approaches Barks' recreation of Camus' "benign indifference of the universe" in color panels and dialogue balloons is Harvey Kurtzman in two of his magazines: Two-Fisted Tales and Frontline Combat.

There are any number of ways that people have read the duck stories, many of which surprise Barks himself. "The amazing trouble some people go to in order to explain their analyses of Donald and his kinfolk! I'm stone dumb. None of these studies of Donald's 'parent figure' and so on make any sense to me. But it is nice to know that studious and intelligent people in a lot of walks of life feel strongly enough about the plots to analyze them down to the last hidden motive."

Two facts to consider before waxing Freudian about Donald's home life are that Barks inherited Donald and the boys from the animated films and that they were already in the uncle/nephew relationship. The choice had been a logical one, however: children don't exist without adults, yet fathers and mothers are too close for comfort. An enraged armor-clad Donald, marching on the kids' snow fort booming, "Nothing can save you from me! I am invincible! I AM DOOM itself! Snort!" (WDCS No. 41), is already the way a small child sees an angry parent. Barks puts it simply: "The kids can disobey Donald and play tricks on him, but it's not like doing it to their parents." Comedy writers from Plautus to P. G. Wodehouse and Saki have understood the merits of the avuncular relationship. Bring in