'You come around there and catch me and write out my walking papers for me. I'll go up to the office and cash them in and get my check. I want to be out of town and on my way somewhere else.' If I quit I would have had to wait around till the next payday before I got my money, but I wanted to get it right then and be gone."

Barks worked free-lance for the **Eye-Opener** through November 1931. Then, "when their editors had gotten so deep into the bottle that they couldn't do it any more, they sent for me to come back there and take on the job of staff artist. Just sort of handy gag man around the office." The **Calgary Eye-Opener** had originally been edited and published in Calgary by a Canadian humorist before it was sold to one of the Fawcett brothers and moved to Minneapolis. Barks edited, drew, and wrote gags for the magazine, frequently signing the name of whoever had originated the cartoon idea to the finished artwork to keep the magazine from looking like a one-Barks operation. The cartoons were the racy/ethnic sort of gag that was popular in the twenties and thirties and were done in a variety of styles.

At the **Eye-Opener** Barks finally realized his long-time dream—he was indoors working as a professional cartoonist, luxuriously warmed by a red-hot coal stove. Coal was plentiful in the early thirties, but food and money were scarce and many people were desperate. Barks recalls looking down from his office window and seeing rioters and clouds of tear gas across at the city hall. Barks himself was making the fantastically good salary of $110 per month. The

**Eye-Opener** must have done rather well to keep publishing through the worst of the Depression.

In November 1935, Barks heard of work at the Disney studios and immediately applied. "I didn't have any particular style. You see, I'd been drawing all kinds of different people's styles when learning to draw, and nothing ever came of it that was individual, except something that looked a little bit like Disney's style. That's what started me on trying out for them. I'd look at those Mickey Mouse newspaper strips and think, 'Hell I'm drawing lines like that.' I thought, 'I'll try out and send them cartoons and see what they think of them.'"

Evidently his style did fit the Disney description. "When George Drake hired me, I hadn't even quit my job with the **Eye-Opener**. I had to write back and tell him I had to get a replacement for myself, and immediately they offered me a raise if I'd stay on back at the **Eye-Opener**. I had a little trepidation about leaving that offer and going to work for Disney for $20 a week, but I did it." Barks worked the first six months in Disney's animation department as an in-betweener on the short duck cartoons, and then transferred to the story department, where he did continuity for the same seven-minute shorts.

These cartoons were worked up as a group effort. Men like Harry Reeves, David Cody, Roy Williams, T. Hee, and Barks would gather in a story conference. As they talked, Barks sketched out the suggested ideas for story continuity on 6 x 8-inch sheets of notepaper, one sketch for each segment of action.