on the animation itself. There may have been charm in taking a character like Pluto, for example, and putting a plumber's helper on his back end and working him into about seven minutes of contortions or having him stuck on fly paper for seven more minutes. The animator might have had a good time doing it, but it wasn't for me.

Breaking a story down into the panels was quite a bit of drudgery. But that's where all these little gags would come in—during the business of breaking it down: Little sight gags and little dialogue gags come at that time. So when I got my plot all broken down into eight-panel pages and the whole thing written out and sprinkled with gags, the real pleasure came—sitting down to draw. I liked the roughing out fairly well, but when I really relaxed was on the inking. I could have three or four pages all drawn in blue pencil, and then I'd have it easy for a while! I would start to ink it. That's where I really put the polish into it. Sometimes I would see still another thing that I could do in the way of a gag. I'd just erase or maybe throw away half a page and draw it over again in order to do a new gag.

When I do dialogue, I know what dialogue is going into the balloon, but not exactly. I always tried to tell all of my ideas in the fewest words possible, but sometimes I had to put in what seemed to me too many words and just crush the characters clear down to the bottom of the panel. I notice in modern comics they will put one balloon up at the top and another at the bottom of the panel and have some of the characters above their own dialogue and others below it. I always tried to keep it up at the top because you can see the characters at the same time you're reading the dialogue. But when there's one balloon off down here and another one up there, it divides it all up to where you can't grasp the whole picture at once. It's hard for me to read recent comics, and I believe that's one of the reasons.

There have been times when I felt nervous about taking a chance with a plot, but it wasn't enough to stop me. I'd compromise a bit if I felt I was getting too wild. I've approached every subject with my teeth chattering and knees knocking. Getting new ideas was the big nerve-racker. Often I'd feel I'd pumped the well dry and hadn't another idea in my system: I'd get real scared. I can remember times when I got so scared that when I did come up with an idea, I almost cried with relief at having gotten over that hump again. There were times when I would have dead periods in

***

<page_header>
EDWARD SUMMER / 1981 129
</page_header>

which nothing would crank out for days. I'd watch that old calendar going by, and it was beginning to look like the coming of the noose! I was a terrible pessimist.

I think I worked better under pressure. I had to! I'm lazy by nature and postpone work as long as I can. I'd fool away a week, then get into absolute terror when I only had three weeks left to do everything. When I had to work, I could do it. Those periods happened more and more over the years, but toward the end of my writing career, I ceased to worry about them. If I had a dead period, I'd relax a bit and think, "Oh, well, it will pass." Sometimes I'd cudgel my brain to forcefully create a plot. But plots that I forced never seemed to gel. They were the ones that I would take a second look at after I'd drawn a page or two, put them on the shelf and go to a whole new idea. Just getting that false start out of my system would clear the tracks so that the good ideas could come along.

I had never done painting or sketching on my own until about 1955, when suddenly I was ahead of my deadlines. So I tried to paint some watercolors. But it didn't take me long to find that I was beginning to lose interest in my duck work; I had to go back to concentrating on those ducks again. The watercolors were too much fun. That's a reason why I never developed my own comic strips. When I got to thinking up material for a strip, I soon realized that it would take months, even years, before I'd get enough polished material to have three weeks of continuity to show to a syndicate. In the meantime, I would have had to have something to buy groceries with. I couldn't leave the ducks for that long, so I decided I'd stick with those ducks and figure that sometime something's going to make the decision for me. I thought, "It will either be that I go on to the end of my time with the ducks or the ducks lose their publisher or something happens so that there are no longer any duck comic books for me to do." So I just let fate make the decision for me like old Gladstone Gander.

I spent a lot of time learning from other people's writings, but after I had begun producing stories for comic books, I stopped reading other people's work, especially comic-book writing. I had only Donald and the nephews to work with and had found a good formula for using them, so I didn't want to unconsciously absorb foreign methods of working. I might get mixed up. I was fascinated by heroes like Superman, and a little afraid of what it might do to me. I'd wind up writing for Marvel instead of for the ducks.

Actually I was expressing myself more freely because I was anonymous