self-conscious about my writing and drawing. I would have liked to receive a few words of summation once in a while from the editors telling me the trend of how the readers praised or booed, but the eds [sic] probably feared I would ask for a raise" (Ault 1999).

The reason Barks was singled out among all other print-media artists in the Disney corporation lies in the degree of autonomy he was able to retain while still mobilizing all of Disney's distribution and marketing power. The massive volume of work Barks produced (as one of the lead story men on over thirty-six Donald Duck animated cartoons between 1936 and 1942 and writer-artist on over five hundred comic book stories and countless cover gags from late 1942 until June of 1966, when he officially "retired," only to enter a twenty-six-year career of creating oil paintings of the Disney ducks) thus embodies two closely related paradoxes. Not only was he perhaps the most widely read but least known author in the world, but also his best work is "pure Disney" (he had little success in life when he was not using or creating "Disney" characters), and yet his work was so unique that it actually *displaced* the Disney vision in the direction of his own individual talent. Since most work for Disney is collaborative, the comic book venue was one of the only places in the Disney empire where purely individual talent could show through directly. However much he may have wanted to make it on his own as an independent "Artist" (as he identified himself quite simply on his early business cards), Barks came to realize more and more that the fullest expression of his artistic talent required the *intersection* of the global distribution and instant recognizability of the Disney characters with his own ability to explore the possibilities and limitations of the comic book format.

Although comic book work was also usually collaborative, the key to Barks's success was unquestionably his ability to seize, at the earliest possible moment, an almost absolute autonomy over his work. In order to do that he had to take advantage of any opportunity to show the publishers that his finished product would be vastly superior to all other such work only if he had the freedom to exercise full artist control over it.

Barks's drive for artistic autonomy arose out of the aversion he had developed toward the hierarchical "committee" method of constructing stories for animated cartoons, even though his previous six years of work in the new Donald Duck story unit had significantly honed his skill at drawing the characters, and the Disney method of using storyboards to map out plots (a technique he adapted to his comic book production) had deepened his storytelling ability. When he would go to the preview screenings of the duck shorts for which he had developed the stories, however, he would "wince" when he realized the extent to which all of his work had become subservient to a product over which he had no final control and which bore no physical resemblance whatsoever to the storyboards he had been creating (Ault and Ault). So when he was given the opportunity to illustrate thirty-two pages of the sixty-four-page comic book script provided to him by Western Publishing for the 1942 Donald Duck one-shot "Pirate Gold," he immediately saw that comic book work was "a field [he] would like to get into," but he also wanted to write his own stories, to have as much control as possible over what his audience would actually be reading.

---

Barks aggressively earned his right to almost complete artistic autonomy very early in the game by improving so decisively a Donald Duck script sent to him by Western Publishing that he was invited to submit a story of his own, which he did very quickly—"from the white paper on up to the finished product" all in a bundle—writing his own script, penciling the drawings, inking them up to the final stage and lettering the dialogue in the balloons.5 "Bingo! That's what they wanted!" Barks said in 1997, "And the rest is history." When Barks was asked to submit a script for his first long Donald Duck one-shot adventure, "The Mummy's Ring," his editor Eleanor Packer initially asked Barks to rewrite the ending segment before turning it into final form. When Barks made the changes Packer suggested, she realized that Barks's original version was superior and asked him to change it back: "She could see that I had been aiming at some particular tie-in with the earlier parts of the story, and it made more sense. After that she didn't criticize my story construction" (Ault 1973).

Chase Craig, one of the editors to whom Barks submitted much of his work, characterized Barks as "very, very sensitive about his work. He was much better than the people who were editing his work."6 Once Barks had demonstrated this ability at the very beginning of his comic book career, he was accorded an autonomy almost unknown anywhere else in the Disney empire. He fully conceived, executed, and submitted his stories in final form with virtually no editorial supervision. He rarely provided the Western office with synopses for approval before turning his ideas into the finished product, and the stories he produced were rarely censored or edited in any way.7

In the May 1955 issue of *Fortnight* (Vol. 18), Charles Beaumont revealed Barks's identity publicly for the first time and described his unique role at Western Publishing quite accurately: