Barks was and how to reach him. Spicer, in fact, wrote to Barks before Willits did. Understandably, after seventeen years with no feedback whatsoever,<sup>18</sup> Barks eyed his first direct fan letters with suspicion. How Barks came to realize gradually that he really did have a massive fan following, with all its rewards and hassles, is a story all its own.<sup>19</sup>

Willits's 1962 interview not was published in full until six years later in *Comic Art* #7 (1968), delayed in part because the Disney company would not permit the interview to be published until Disney had died in 1966 and the fiction that he was still drawing the comics became improbable. When it did appear, it was embellished with details compiled by Don and Maggie Thompson and accompanied by J. Michael Barrier's "The Lord of Quackly Hall," an expanded version of an essay published in the June 1967 issue of his fanzine *Funnyworld*. Barrier had also started publishing his Barks bibliography in installments beginning with the September 1967 issue (#7) of *Funnyworld*. In 1966, Alfredo Castelli, who had seen Barks's name in an issue of Barrier's *Funnyworld*, was the first comic scholar in Italy (and perhaps anywhere outside the USA) to mention Barks's name (as well as other Disney artists) in the fanzine *Comics Club 104* (*Guida a Topolino* ["A Guide to Topolino Magazine"]).<sup>20</sup> Barks's name spread throughout the world by the channels of a bottom-up "fandom," rather than by a top-down fiat by Disney.

Even though Barks's name had not entered into public circulation through official channels, Western Publishing and the Walt Disney Company took notice of the rising tide of Barks fandom and began according Barks the kind of attention he should have received years before. In 1971, five years after his retirement, Barks was awarded the Disney Duckster for meritorious contribution. Three days after Barks received the Duckster, he was visited by J. Michael Barrier for an interview session (contained in this book), and a young fan by the name of Glenn Bray accompanied Barrier and the other two friends he had taken with him, Bob Foster and Bill Spicer (John Spicer's brother). At the end of the interview session, Bray asked Barks if he would do an oil painting of the ducks (specifically the cover for *WDC&S* #108, also known as the "sailboat" cover). Although he had received similar requests from fans in the past, Barks felt confident enough—having just received the Duckster award—to write to Disney and request permission to create oil paintings of the Disney ducks. Within two weeks (on 16 June 1971), Barks received a phone call from George Sherman at Disney's informing him that the Disney lawyers had granted him permission—"limited (time-wise)"—to paint "his" Disney characters,

***

<page_header>
INTRODUCTION xxix
</page_header>

royalty-free.<sup>21</sup> Over the next five years Barks produced more than 130 oil paintings, initially commissioned, like Bray's, by individual fans for $150-$350. The demand for the paintings eventually became so great that Barks had no choice but to allow his paintings to be sold at public auctions, and by 1976 the painting "July 4th in Duckburg" sold for $6,400 in a New York auction. Shortly after this sale, for complex reasons, Disney withdrew permission for Barks to do any more Disney paintings. Once Barks could no longer produce Disney paintings, the prices climbed immediately into the five-figure range.

After three books on Barks appeared almost simultaneously in 1981, Barks made an appearance on *Entertainment Tonight* and experienced his fifteen-minute flurry of fame, after which he sank back into obscurity in the USA, which was fine with Barks—a man who never sought nor enjoyed the spotlight. The three books had other consequences for Barks than public acclaim in the USA, however. J. Michael Barrier's *Carl Barks and the Art of the Comic Book* (a critical and bibliographic study) never received the recognition and publicity it deserved, but, among many other valuable things, it provided for the first time completely reliable information about the dates Barks submitted his stories or they were accepted by Western Publishing, making a nearly definitive chronology of Barks's work accessible for the first time to scholars as well as fans. Bruce Hamilton and Russ Cochran's *The Fine Art of Walt Disney's Donald Duck by Carl Barks* (a collection of reproductions of Barks's Disney oil paintings published under the Another Rainbow Publishing imprint) became an award-winning book. Edward Summer and Gary Kurtz's *Uncle Scrooge McDuck: His Life and Times* (the first collection of Barks's Uncle Scrooge stories to be published with extreme care and unusually high production values and published under the Celestial Arts imprint) received rave reviews in magazines such as *Time* and *Newsweek*. Significantly, due primarily to the efforts of Gary Kurtz (producer of *Star Wars*), the Uncle Scrooge book was accompanied by a signed and numbered lithograph of a new Barks painting—the first one Barks had done since 1976. Together, the *Fine Art* volume and the *Uncle Scrooge* volume convinced Disney that money could be made from Barks's reputation and work, and Bruce Hamilton and Russ Cochran were able to negotiate two important licenses from Disney simultaneously—to produce a series of lithographs based on new oil paintings by Barks and to produce *The Carl Barks Library*, a thirty-volume hardback series, collecting virtually all of Barks's Disney comic book work, printed in black and white. At the very time that *The Barks Library* was going into