# xxiv INTRODUCTION

constraints of the hot-tempered animation Donald, Barks created a movable locale (Duckburg) and a cast of fluid, dynamic continuing characters, including Scrooge McDuck who became more famous than Donald, "lucky" Gladstone Gander who "curried everybody's cream," Gyro Gearloose (Barks's inventive alter ego), the Beagle Boys (the world's hardest-working would-be-thieves), Neighbor Jones (Donald's backyard nemesis), the Junior Woodchucks (Barks's respectful parody not only of the Boy Scouts but of all associations that endow themselves with awards to their own importance), Flintheart Glomgold (Scrooge's increasingly evil doppelganger), and Magica DeSpell (the Vesuvian sorceress who lusted after Scrooge's number one dime in story after story). He also invented hundreds of other characters who made only one memorable appearance (Porkrmuscle J. Hamfat, Pulpheart Clabberhead, P. J. McBrine, Chisel McSue, Prunella Prunepuss, a.k.a. Angina Arthritis, and Don Panko de, to mention just a few). All of his characters were so believable that they seemed *more real* than the mundane world to which his readers had to return after following Barks's characters on their imaginative journeys.

At other times he enchanted his readers into imaginary worlds of his own construction populated with believable inhabitants (the "Plain Awful" inhabitants of the land of square eggs; the underground world of the Terries and Fermies, who make earthquakes; the land of the Peewee-gahs, who speak in the cadences of Longfellow's "Hiawatha"; the dwellers of the "island in the sky," whose population Scrooge saves at his own expense; the lonely extraterrestrial dweller of the "24-carat moon," whose ultimate desire is to find "a way to go home"; and on and on)— fantastic worlds and characters that were extraordinarily plausible because they were built around the "tools of everyday life."

In many of the classic *Uncle Scrooge* stories, Barks had his ducks interact with the past, breathing new life into myths, legends, and historical facts. Barks's stories are thus not just influenced by earlier tales, but they contribute to them retroactively. Often they bear the burden of claiming to reveal the "true" story behind legends or myths—like the discovery of Atlantis, the Golden Fleece, the fountain of youth, or Circe's wand. Other stories are based on the fiction of the ducks tracking down the "truth" behind historical mysteries (the Abominable Snowman, the Flying Dutchman, or the wealth of Pizarro). Barks consistently displaced myth and history by demystifying legends, myths, and historical mysteries or confirming them through plausible physical explanations.

Barks's self-education made him especially sensitive to his responsibility

---

# INTRODUCTION xxv

not to mislead his readers. He used his imaginative power to create fictions that would make his readers more conscious of the truth of the world lying beyond the borders of his comic fantasies. On the one hand, he chose to write stories that demanded scrupulous attention to the laws of mechanics and of common sense he had encountered in his early experience as a physical laborer. On the other hand, he invented plots that forced him to augment his lack of formal education. He seemed to gravitate naturally toward tales that required research into obscure and obstinate historical and literary details in order to make his otherwise fantastic stories as believable and accurate as possible. The fact that he usually relied on popular research sources like *National Geographic*, *Encyclopedia Britannica*, and *Popular Science* perfectly symbolizes his tendency to use practical, ready-at-hand resources for the most arcane and exotic purposes imaginable. Above all, Barks valued the originality and sincerity of his work. His commitment was to teach his audience to read with wonder-ment, all the while "telling it like it is," "laying it right on the line," and making his readers recognize that "nothing was going to always turn out roses" (Ault 1973).

Hidden under the routine anonymity of Disney production codes, Barks used his life experiences and the skills he honed during his years in the story department at the Disney Studio to produce stories that readers experienced as transcriptions of a "real world," despite (or perhaps because of) the duck-like appearance of his very human characters. Barks organized his narrative structures with such microscopically accurate timing ("to the split second") that, once they were written and drawn, they seem to have always existed. He developed the imaginative texture of his plots through the facial and bodily expressions of his characters and the realism of his backgrounds, all of which he arranged in seemingly infallible order in the layouts of his over 6,000 pages of comic book art, each image welded moment-by-moment to the precise emotional subtleties of the situations as they unfolded on his drawing board: "The feeling that I had for the ducks when I was writing the stories was able to come clear out of the ends of my fingers and onto those drawings" (Ault, Hamilton, Wright, and Ronan 1999).

Two "ordinary" examples of how Barks subtly expanded the character of the animation Donald Duck can be seen in two half pages of his comic book work that are usually not considered exceptionally "classic" but rather "business as usual" in Barks's ten-page stories for *Walt Disney's Comics and Stories*.