line) to preserve the *maximum authenticity and accuracy*. In every case possible, I have gone back to the original audio or video recordings, and where that was not possible to the very best versions (often unpublished) that I could locate. One of the most important consequences of this book is the way it allows readers to put Barks's life together for themselves in new ways, almost in the form of a jigsaw puzzle. One example of such a process, given in some detail in this introduction, hints at how information in a letter 4 August 1950, from Western Publishing intersects with information from interviews conducted in 1978 and 1997. My aim has been to do a job that Carl Barks himself would have been proud of, to choose the very best of the published and unpublished interchanges he had over a forty-year period, to give my most sincere effort to make this collection as original as possible, and to give as clear a picture of Barks as a man as is possible.

These interviews are important historically because it was primarily through personal contacts—letters and interviews with Barks published in "fanzines" in the 1960s—that the mask of his anonymity cracked and his name (previously hidden behind the policy of both Walt Disney Productions and their comic book licensee Western Publishing) began to spread around the world. Most notable of these is the first recorded interview with Barks conducted in December 1962 by Malcolm Willis—the first ever to learn Barks's name and address. This breakthrough interview did not appear in print until 1968, when an expanded version was published in the fanzine *Comic Art #7*. Barks's name had appeared as a guest 1961, when *Comic Art #2* (edited by Don and Maggie Thompson and distributed in 125 copies) contained a letter from Carl Barks. But it was the publication of the Willis interview, together with the critical essay entitled "The Lord of Quackly Hall" by J. Michael Barrier, in *Comic Art #7* (with a circulation of 475 copies) that triggered a flood of new contacts with Barks and his escalating public acclaim within (and beyond) comic fan circles around the world. Within three years he received a Disney Duckster award (26 May 1971) for meritorious achievement, and, on 16 June 1971, he was granted permission to produce and sign his own name on paintings of his Barks-inflected Disney characters—loyalty free—a first for Disney. By the end of the twentieth century, several of Barks's Disney oil paintings had sold in the neighborhood of $200,000 apiece.

The circulation of his name to more and more people had rapidly called into public existence not only an artist who had been invisible except for

the unique qualities he had deposited in his work, but also a worldwide community of people who found that they all had one thing in common—a love for the work of Carl Barks. There is no parallel in the history of modern art and literature where a single figure could have such direct and widespread influence and remain completely anonymous if it had not been for his fans who called his name into existence. So who is Carl Barks anyway?

Leonard Maltin directly addressed this question in an article in the *Disney News*. He points out a startling paradox:

> This may come as a surprise, but the most popular and widely read artist-writer in the world—by at least one educated estimate—is a man about whom most people have never heard: Carl Barks. You see, Carl Barks was the author and artist responsible for many of Walt Disney's Donald Duck comic books for more than 20 years (and the creator of that immortal character Scrooge McDuck). Although he retired ten years ago, reprinted editions of his stories are still read by approximately 22 million people every month, all around the world.<sup>1</sup>

When Carl Barks died on 25 August 2000 at the age of ninety-nine, Roy E. Disney, vice chairman of The Walt Disney Company, wrote:

> Carl Barks was one of the most gifted artists and inventive storytellers ever to work for Disney and the undisputed "Comic Book King." When it came to creating imaginative tales for Donald Duck, Uncle Scrooge and the other classic Disney characters, no one ever did it better. He challenged our imaginations and took us on some of the greatest adventures we have ever known. His prolific comic book creations entertained many generations of devoted fans and influenced countless artists over the years. Carl's joyful humor and stylish storytelling will certainly be missed but his timeless tales will stand as a legacy to his originality and brilliant artistic vision.

Barks was the only comic book artist ever to win a Disney Legends award, which was presented by Roy E. Disney himself in 1991. In 1997, Barks recalled his brief interaction with Roy Disney on that occasion: "He spoke to me as if he was a fan of mine. Like he had read those comic book stories when he was a kid growing up. And he liked my stuff that I did for Disney, so we had a sort of mutual understanding—that I liked what Disney did for me, and he liked what I did for Disney" (Ault and Ault).

In the "Disney Legends" short subject devoted to Barks, which began airing on the Disney Channel in the year 2000, again Roy Disney referred to Barks's "wonderful sense of teasing stories that kept you turning from