Press, Inc., 1969), but the first extensive discussion of his work in a book came in 1971, in *Comix: A History of Comic Books in America* by Les Daniels (New York: Outerbridge & Dienstfrey). This book also included a color reproduction of the Barks story from *Walt Disney's Comics* No. 126, March 1951. Unfortunately, *Comix* was a shallow and poorly researched book; its paragraphs on Barks (in the third chapter, titled "Dumb Animals") were largely a paraphrase of material in *Comic Art* No. 7.
Only a handful of noteworthy magazine articles appeared in the six or seven years after *Comic Art* No. 7 was published. "A Visit with Carl Barks" by Bill Spicer (*Graphic Story World* No. 2, July 1971) is an accurate account of a visit in which I took part; it was during this visit that I recorded the first of my interviews with Barks.
A rare example of formal literary criticism of Barks's work appeared in *Occident*, Vol. VII (New Series), No. 1 (1973), in "Librorum Comicorum Explicatio" by Donald Ault, then teaching English at the University of California at Berkeley. Ault also contributed an article on Barks to the *Berkeley Con Program Book*, in the same year. The article is accompanied by examples of Barks's work in the thirties, before he joined the Disney studio's staff. A brief article by Ault, "Comic Art and How to Read It," appeared in the *California Monthly* for January-February 1976 (Vol. 86, No. 4), a magazine for University of California alumni. In the article, Ault compared the story-telling techniques of Barks, Alex Raymond, and Hal Foster. The example of Barks's work was an unpublished half-page panel from "Back to the Klondike" in *Uncle Scrooge* Four Color No. 456, 1953.
In 1974, the Disney studio officially acknowledged Barks's importance with a chapter titled "The Comic Book King" in *Disneyana* by Cecil Munsey (New York: Hawthorn Books), a sloppily written book on Disney collectibles. Most of the chapter was derived (without attribution) from the Barks interview in *Comic Art* No. 7.
In May 1975, the *Harvard Magazine* (Vol. 77, No. 9) devoted eight pages to "Comix 101b (half term): Why a Duck" by E. B. Boatner, a generally excellent piece on Barks and his admirers that is illustrated, strangely enough, not by any of Barks's comic-book work, but by color photographs of him and several of his paintings of the ducks.
Boatner contributed an interview with Carl and Gare Barks to the *Newcon '76 Program Book* (which has a delightful photograph of Barks reading a copy of the *Howard the Duck* comic book on the front cover). The 1976 Newcon, a comics convention held at Boston, is one of only two comics conventions that Barks has attended (the other was the 1977 San Diego Comic-Con). Good articles about Barks's appearance at Newcon were published in the *Bugle-American* of Milwaukee ("Lulu and the Duck Man" by Chris Couch, in the issue of December 3, 1976), and *Comic Journal* No. 32, January 1977 ("Barks in Boston" by Gary Groth).
Another fine article by E. B. Boatner ("Carl Barks — From Burbank to Calisota") was included in the seventh annual edition of *The Comic Book Price Guide* (1977), which also included extensive color reproductions of Barks paintings (including one of Porky Pig on the front cover). The first, unnumbered issue of *Ophemera* (1977) included "Carl Barks' Prof. Nuts McFuzzy in 'McFuzzy Is Safe'" a reprint of a humorous piece by Barks from the September 1931 *Calgary Eye-Opener*, with Barks's original illustrations and a few recent comments by him.
*Barks Miscellany*
Not listed, so far, are some bits and pieces of Barks's work that were not done for Western Publishing, but are so closely related to his comics work that some mention should be made of them.
Most important are his paintings of the ducks. As mentioned above, a number of his paintings are reproduced in the seventh edition of *The Comic Book Price Guide*, but far more have been reproduced in *Graphic Gallery*, an irregularly published catalog of original comic art for sale. Paintings were reproduced in black and white in issues 1 (1973), 2 (1973) and 3 (1974), and in excellent color in issues 4 (1974), 5 (1975), 6 (1975), 7 (1976), 10 (1977), and 11 (1978). Several issues also contain pages of unpublished Barks artwork for comic books. A Barks painting was also reproduced in color in *Collectors Showcase* No. 2 (1975), another catalog of original art for sale, and there is a Barks painting on the cover of *Funnyworld* No. 16.
Barks has done very few drawings specifically for fan publications. He did similar drawings for *Funnyworld* No. 10 (November 1968) and *Comic Art* No. 7 (1968), which were published within a few days of one another. His pencil drawing for *Funnyworld* No. 10 (reproduced on the cover of that issue) shows him at his easel with a voluptuous nude model before him — but his painting is of a duck. For *Comic Art*, the situation was reversed: a duck model was transformed into a nude on Barks's canvas. (The latter drawing was traced onto a mimeograph stencil by Maggie Thompson, from Barks's pencil original. It was later reproduced in *The Comic-Book Book*.)
Drawings by Barks have appeared in the program books for the 1972, 1974, 1975, 1977, and 1978 editions of the San Diego Comic-Con.
Letters from Barks have appeared in a number of fan magazines, including (this list is probably far from complete) *Comic Art* No. 6 (1966); *Fantasy Illustrated* No. 2 (Spring 1964); *Funnyworld* No. 5 (April 1967), No. 7 (September 1967), No. 12 (Fall 1970); *Starling* No. 19 (July 1971); and *Voice of Comicdom* No. 5 (August 1965). Most of these letters are short and of the "thank you for the magazine" variety, but some (such as the letter in *Fantasy*