**THIS IS A** bibliography of Carl Barks's comic-book work — or, more precisely, a bibliography of his work for Western Publishing Company, which has published Barks's work under a variety of labels (most often Dell and Gold Key) and through a number of subsidiaries (Whitman, K. K. Publications, Golden Press), and has itself changed names (it was Western Printing and Lithographing Company until 1960). Barks has written and illustrated comic books for no other company, but he has done some work for Western that does not fall in the comic-book category. Those items (children's books, model sheets) are listed here because of their clear connection with his comic books. Whenever Barks stepped away from comic books to do something else for Western, the Disney ducks were always his subject matter.

Barks's story credits at the Disney studio are listed in Appendix B, but no detailed description of the animated cartoons is included in this book, simply because it is on his comic books that his reputation rests. His work in animation has a claim on our attention because his work in comics was so brilliant; it is of limited interest in itself. The same is true of his magazine cartoons. Some future scholar may want to go through those old magazines, and compile a catalog of Barks's work (which wasn't always signed with Barks's name), but I can't imagine why; I think it is enough to know that Barks worked for the *Eye-Opener*, and to have seen a sampling of his cartoons (like those reproduced elsewhere in this book). This bibliography is restricted to Barks's comic books because they are what really matters.

**THE BIBLIOGRAPHY IS** arranged alphabetically, by the titles of the comic books in which Barks's work has appeared. (In listing both comic books and individual stories, I have ignored the ubiquitous "Walt Disney's" and "Walt Disney Presents," except

when the Disney name is an integral part of a title, such as *Walt Disney's Comics and Stories*.)

The bibliography covers all of the American comic books and related publications in which Barks's work has appeared, through those issues bearing 1978 dates — which is to say, through those issues that had appeared on newsstands by the end of October 1978.

Except as noted otherwise, all of these comic books were, when Barks's work was appearing in them, ordinary commercial comic books of the standard dimensions. When a title departed from the norm — by being a giveaway, or of an odd size, or something like that — that fact is noted at the start of the listings for that title. I have made no effort to distinguish "giants" from other comic books, giving instead the full page count for each comic book in which Barks's work appeared. Likewise, I have not listed the cover prices of the comic books, since such prices have no meaning in today's inflated market for old comic books.

Most of Barks's work was done in eight-panel pages — four rows of two panels each — although he was very flexible within that basic framework. At the start of his comic-book career, he worked with six-panel pages — three rows of two panels each — and I have noted, at the start of the listings for *Donald Duck*, *Our Gang*, and *Walt Disney's Comics*, how long his work appeared in that format until the change to eight-panel pages. Notes also identify those later stories that departed from the basic eight-panel format, usually by returning to the six-panel format. Barks has said that there was no particular reason for these later six-panel stories, "except that the office would ask me to try a six-panel format once in a while" (Apr. 7, 1968, letter to Michael Barrier). In 1945, when the wartime paper shortage was shrinking the size of comic books, Barks did a few stories in a cramped format of ten to twelve panels per page — a format that fortunately is visible in