# Preface

**IN A SENSE**, this book will self-destruct if it succeeds in its purpose, which is to open more readers' eyes to the special excellences of Carl Barks's comic-book stories. If Barks comes to be accepted as one of the few real artists to have worked in the comic-strip medium, my essay on his life and work will almost certainly seem inadequate, if not downright improper. Many people frown on combining biography with criticism, as I have done here, and certainly the combination can be questioned when — as in Barks's case — the world of the author's imagination is so far removed from his everyday existence. Likewise, if our universities turn out a few Barks scholars in the future, no doubt at least one of them will produce a bibliography of Barks's work that annotates his stories in more detail than I have done.

This book could have been three books, in other words, and at least three books — by other writers, not by me — may eventually sprout from it. Barks's reputation may out- grow this book like a boy outgrowing a suit of clothes. But for now, one book is sufficient.

I have said that the other books, if they  come, will not be written by me, and that is  because I doubt that I will have anything more  to say about Carl Barks that would justify my  writing another book about him. Each time that I have considered Barks's work in print, I have found myself reworking the same ideas.

The essay appeared in embryonic form in 1967 as "The Lord of Quackly Hall," in the sixth, mimeographed issue of *Funnyworld*, a fan magazine I then published. A longer and more elaborate version of "The Lord of Quackly Hall" was published in 1968 in *Comic Art*, another mimeographed fan magazine. "The Duck Man," as published in *The Comic-Book Book* in 1974, was essentially a shorter "popular" version of "Quackly Hall." The essay in this book is the outgrowth of those three earlier articles: much longer, far more detailed, rewritten so heavily that scarcely a paragraph remains the same — and yet in substance unchanged. Carl Barks's stories made a deep impression on me when I was a child. As I have grown older, I have been better able to articulate my feelings about his stories, and to subject my feelings, and the stories themselves, to closer scrutiny; but my feelings have not changed, and I do not think that they ever will. My opinions do change in some respects — there are stories that I still love, but no longer admire as much as I used to — but their core, my conviction of the great worth of Carl Barks's best work, does not.

I put my affections and my critical judgments to a severe test in the first half of 1978, when I was completing the bulk of the work on this book, by re-reading every bit of Carl Barks's comic-book work. In many instances, I was reading stories that I had not looked at for