Persia while sitting in a dentist's waiting room, a few minutes after I had bought it at a downtown variety store; I can remember buying another Donald Duck, "The Old Castle's Secret," from a neighbor boy for a nickel, at a little stand he had set up to sell his old comic books; I can remember reading the June 1948 Walt Disney's Comics for the first time, in a bunk at a summer camp, in 1951. And even when I have no such specific memories about a Barks story that I read when I was child, that story still has a certain aura for me. In reading it, even if it is for the thirtieth or fortieth time, I become more aware of the child I once was.

Such feelings are not nostalgic. Carl Barks's stories do not excite in me any desire to be that child again, nor do they encourage me to coat my memories of childhood with a sentimental gloss. Quite the opposite. When I read Barks's best stories, I am reminded instead that childhood is full of pain, and groping, and missed opportunities; of confusion, and embarrassment, and careless cruelty; and I am reminded that life itself is not much different. The world is, it seems, filled with Gladstone Ganders who thrive not only on their good luck, but on our misfortunes. How often, when I have suffered some disappointment, have I thought of the wonderful opening pages of one of Barks's stories, in the August 1951 Walt Disney's Comics. Donald has just been victimized — again — by Gladstone's good luck; Gladstone has purchased some of the world's goods at the cost of a "SPLAT" and a "BONG" inflicted on poor Donald. Donald trudges toward home, so dejected that his knuckles are dragging on the ground. "This morning I got my tongue caught in the cake mixer," he thinks gloomily, "and before that, the soap powder fell in my scrambled eggs, and before that...maybe Gladstone is right." (The thought balloon is now all but dissolving in tears.) "He'll always be lucky

and I'll always be unlucky." Donald tells the nephews that he is going to lock himself in the broom closet for the rest of his life: "I'm so unlucky I have no business trying to get along in the world." The nephews — tough-minded as usual — tell him to shape up, but at the end of the story they are pleading with him to let them into the broom closet, too.

Here, as on so many other occasions, Barks has seized upon the feelings that all of us have had, and has magnified and lampooned them so artfully that we have no choice but to laugh and admit that yes, that really is our reflection in the funhouse mirror.

Like all of the best comedy, Barks's comedy is distinguished by its basic seriousness. He has always been the enemy of sloth and self-pity, with laughter as his weapon. For him, integrity and industry and self-respect are not just high-sounding words, but biological necessities. We do our best, he seems to say, or we die where it counts — in our hearts.

Artists of this kind are rare in any medium; that one should have flourished in comic books is incredible. Most comic-book artists, writers, and editors — especially those for "funny animal" comic books — have held their readers, their work, and themselves in contempt. There was never a hint of this in Barks. Exasperation and weariness, yes, near the end of his career — both fully justified — but nothing worse than that. Like only a bare handful of other comic-book men, he was never condescending to his child readers. Donald and his nephews and their world were much more "real" than almost anything else the comic books could offer, not only on the superficial level of detailed, accurate drawing, but on a deeper, emotional level as well.

None of Barks's comic-book stories was ever signed, and we never knew his name, but to my friends and me he was always "the good artist."