encounters with Scrooge, and a thousand and one other pitfalls. In the face of problems like these, Donald's old crazy courage was transformed into something like doggedness; in some stories he even admitted defeat. Donald laid into Gladstone when the provocations became too much to bear, and he sometimes went after the nephews with fire in his eye and a switch in his hand, but he usually faced the world in sputtering frustration and bewilderment. And, as before, Donald usually left himself open to the misery he endured.

The story in the July 1952 *Walt Disney's Comics* is typical of the "new" Donald. The story opens as school is about to let out for summer vacation, and a neighbor warns Donald that his nephews will be "roamin' around every day with nothing to do. They'll get into mischief. They'll keep you worried — swimming in the dangerous places, trespassing on people's property." "I've been thinking about that," Donald replies smugly, explaining that he has made a list of all the mischief the nephews can get into, and has figured out how to stop it: he has rented a houseboat over a sandbar, ten miles out in Lake Erie.

Donald has set himself up for a fall, and his smugness evaporates soon after the ducks arrive on the houseboat. The nephews put a fish in the water barrel; they pour all the gasoline out of the gasoline can so that they can use it to dig a deeper swimming hole in the sandbar; Donald throws a match out the window, lighting the gas on the water, and all the water in the water barrel has to be poured on a blazing spot on the houseboat. The ducks are left stranded on Lake Erie, without gas or water. Donald fumes and rages, but he's left without a target for his wrath: the nephews had no idea they were doing anything wrong. Donald finally is reduced to sulking in his hammock, saying, "Mankind's gentle dreams! How quickly they turn into nightmares!" Donald's troubles aren't over, though; before the story ends, he has gone over Niagara Falls in a barrel, quite against his will. In fact, it's

pretty obvious that the whole story is a piece of machinery constructed for the sole purpose of getting Donald over Niagara Falls in a barrel. It is a measure of Barks's artistry at the time that Donald's plunge seems so natural a consequence of all that has gone before.

Donald was much more subtly characterized than before — just how much more was demonstrated in the October 1952 *Walt Disney's Comics*, in what is possibly Barks's finest single story. As the story opens, the nephews are playing with a toy gun, pretending that it has hypnotic powers. As they pretend to hypnotize one another, Donald sits in a nearby chair, growing increasingly disturbed. His expression changes from panel to panel, until, finally, just before he leaps from his chair, it has become clear that he believes the "hypnotic gun" actually works. Filled with righteous indignation, he seizes the gun from the nephews, telling them, "Don't you kids know it's dangerous to hypnotize people? You might do it to somebody with a gullible mind sometime, and that person would never recover!" Before the nephews can stop him, Donald stalks off to throw the gun into the river.

As he prepares to dispose of the gun, Donald thinks: "Goodness knows what some child might do while under its spell." He raises his arm to hurl the gun. "Why, it might even hypnotize grown-up people." His arm still outstretched, he now gazes at the gun with new interest. "It might, at that! . . . Imagine Uncle Scrooge being hypnotized." Now he caresses the gun, with a sly look on his face. "Say, this thing has possibilities." In the space of three panels, Donald has shifted from indignation to greed, without any grinding of gears.

Scrooge is not hypnotized, of course, but he pretends to be, and gives Donald the bag of money he wants. Donald then lets Scrooge try the gun — and, much to Scrooge's amazement Donald is hypnotized. Scrooge takes advantage of the situation by hypnotizing Donald into thinking he's a ferocious bill collector, and sends him to collect a dollar from an