Morgan's Ghost, but otherwise he did not  contribute to it.

Despite this toe-dipping in comic-book work, Barks had no assurance, when he left the studio, that more would be coming his way. "I took a big gamble. I hoped that I could get on with Western Publishing, doing those familiar ducks. Otherwise, I was going to be stuck with having to develop something for myself and see if I could sell it"to some other publisher. He had not started work on any strips of his own before he was asked to illustrate a ten-page Donald Duck story for the April 1943 issue of Walt Disney's Comics and Stories.

Walt Disney's Comics had begun publica-  tion in 1940, taking up where the monthly  Mickey Mouse Magazine (originally a rowd- ier version of children's magazines like Jack and Jill and St. Nicholas) had left off. Reprints of Disney newspaper strips had crept into the  Magazine in the late thirties, and they had  grown in number as Superman and his pro-  geny drove the old-line children's magazines  to the wall. The last few issues of the Mickey  Mouse Magazine were full of reprints, and  finally the inevitable change was made.Mick-  ey Mouse Magazine died with the September  1940 issue, and Walt Disney's Comics, made up entirely of comic-strip reprints, was born  the next month. For the next two and a half  years, Walt Disney's Comics contained al- most nothing but reprints — so many, in fact,  that some strips had been reprinted two or  three times by 1943. The ten-page Donald Duck stories were the first break in the all- reprint pattern, although original stories a-  bout Bucky Bug, Li'l Bad Wolf, Mickey Mouse  Grandma Duck, and other Disney characters eventually all but crowded out the reprints.

Barks has recalled that the script for that first Donald story — in which Donald defends his Victory Garden from Crows — was sent to him by Western, which was then dealing with its artists under the name of one of its subsidiaries, Whitman, while publishing Walt Dis-

ney's Comics through another affiliate, K.K. Publications. However, the script may have been sent to him directly from the Disney studio. Western's Los Angeles office was a fledgling in 1942 (its first comic book had been published only the year before), and its ties with the Hollywood cartoon studios were close. There is in the Disney Archives an undated note to Barks from the Disney studio, signed "Dorothy" (probably Dorothy Strebe, who worked in the Disney publications department for more than twenty years), that reads in part as follows:

"Here is a 10-page story for Donald Duck. Hope that you like it . . . you are to stage it, of course . . . and if you see that it can be strengthened, or that it deviates from Donald either in narration or action, please make the improvements." Barks's pay was specified as twelve dollars and fifty cents per page.

Since Barks began writing his own stories starting with the May 1943 Walt Disney's Comics, it seems likely that this note accom- panied the script for the story in the April 1943 issue. In any event, Barks did make changes in the story, and the results were satisfactory to Western. Throughout his near- ly twenty-four years with Western, his singu- larity as a comics writer was recognized by his editors: he rarely submitted story ideas in advance.

Barks does recall submitting "a sort of script" for "The Mummy's Ring" (1943), the principal story in the first issue of Donald Duck that he both wrote and illustrated.

"I don't remember how detailed a thing it  was, but I believe I kind of roughed out the  drawings and sent the sheets in, or took the sheets in, and left them there. Eleanor Packer was editor, and she was also quite a story woman herself. She read through what I had  planned for the sequence where the Egyptians  were all in the temple, and they were arguing  as to what to do with this mummy, and so on, and I remember that she suggested some big changes, and she asked me to draw up these